# swe645_hw4

link to the application:
http://ecarkogl-swe645-h1.s3-website.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/

For HW4, the frontend was done using angular application similar to HW3 and the implementation of the backend was done using Lambda Functions. The API gateway was used to generate API links for the get and post Lambda functions. A dynamoDB database was used as the persistance layer where the data is stored using the API's Lambda Functions.

Angular: The angular project was deployed on AWS S3 using the website hosting capabilities. For the student survey generated in this assignment, we needed two views for the frontend section in the Angular part of the assignment. The first view was the survey form. This is a student survey form with certain mandatory fields for student information, checkboxes, radio buttons and dropdowns selections. All fo this was done by creating an angular component named Survey. The HTML section has a form and uses the ngForm directive to make the form work. There is an onclicksubmit function that gets triggered when the submit button on the survey form is clicked. The onclicksubmit function is described in the survery.component.ts file. This file injects the http client module and creates and object for in the constructor method. The onclicksubmit function essentially parses through the data that is submitted by the ngForm and creates a formData object. The form data object is then used in the http post method and is posted to the API, the link to which is in the post method along with the formData as the second parameter. On the other hand, there is another component used in this angular project called results. The result.component.ts makes calls to the get method using the injected http client module. It then subscribes to the observable that is returned from the get method and parses through each one of the entries of the observable to create the results of previously posted surveys. Finally, in results.html, one way binding and the ngFor directive is used to then display all the results of previously submitted surveys.

API gateway and Lambda Functions: Lambda Functions were written using NodeJS to put and get data from the dynamoDB database. in the put lambda function, an event handler was written and connected to the database. Next, the variables to input into the database for the table were parsed into a json format. The documentClient.put method was used to persist the data to the database. If successful, code 201 was returned and if unsuccessful, code 403 was returned. Similarly, the get method was also written in NodeJS to get the data from the database and display it on the webpage. The table name, student was defined in the dynamoDB where the data is being persisted. This student was defined in the get method and documentClient.scan function was used to retrieve the data from the table. The data was converted to json format and if successful, code 201 was returned or if unsuccessful, code 403 was returned with an error message. Next, API gateway was used to generate to generate a link to the get and put lambda functions. The the student model was defined as the JSON format with all objects as string types. 
